ERLANG PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE
The name Erlang, has been presumed by those working on the telephony switches to be a reference to Danish mathematician.Engineer Agner Krarup Erlang and a syllabic abbreviation of "Ericsson Language".
Erlang is a general purpose,concurrent,functional programming language, and a garbage-collected runtime system.The term Erlang is used interchangeably with Erlang /OTP,or  Open Telecom Platform(OTP),which consists of the Erlang runtime system,several ready-to-use components(OTP) mainly written in Erlang,and a set of design principles for Erlang programs.
The Erlang runtime system is designed for systems with these traits:
-Distributed
-Fault-tolerant
-Soft real-time
-Highly avalilable,non-stop applications
-Hot swapping,where code can be changed without stopping a system.
The Erlang programming language has immutable data,pattern matching,and functional programming.The sequentialsubset of the Erlang language supports eager evaluation,sigle assignment,and dynamic typing.
It was originally proprietary software within Ericsson, developed by Joe Armstrong, Robert Virding, and Mike Williams in 1986,but was released as free and open-source sotware n 1998.Erlang/OTP is supported and maintained by the Open Telecom Platform(OTP) product unit at Ericsson.

HISTORY OF ERLANG
Erlang was designed with the aim of improving the development of telephony applications.
The initial version of Erlang was implemented in Prolog and was influenced by the programming language PLEX used in earlier Ericsson exchanges.
 By 1988 Erlang had proven that it was suitable for prototyping telephone exchanges, but the Prolog interpreter was far too slow.
One group within Ericsson estimated that it would need to be 40 times faster to be suitable for production use.
In 1992, work began on the BEAM virtual machine (VM) which compiles Erlang to C using a mix of natively compiled code and threaded code to strike a balance between performance and disk space.
According to Armstrong, the language went from lab product to real applications following the collapse of the next-generation AXE telephone exchange named AXE-N in 1995.
As a result, Erlang was chosen for the next asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) exchange AXD.
In 1998 Ericsson announced the AXD301 switch, containing over a million lines of Erlang and reported to achieve a high availability of nine "9"s. 
Shortly thereafter, Ericsson Radio Systems banned the in-house use of Erlang for new products, citing a preference for non proprietary languages.
The ban caused Armstrong and others to leave Ericsson.The implementation was open-sourced at the end of the year.Ericsson eventually lifted the ban and re-hired Armstrong in 2004.
In 2006, native symmetric multiprocessing support was added to the runtime system and VM.

